Homework come back and this when you were going to finalise our calculate am I to or BMI calculator.
And I hope you finalize that by yourself.
And if you didn't you can of course check out this video.
And if you did You can skip this video.
All right.
So let's go ahead and start.
So first of all what we need is to take the values from our height and our weight.
So hungry to do that is instead of having this on button click method which I'm going to get rid of.
And also all of my other code I'm going to create a new method here which should pretty much be called
Code.
Q late underscore BMI because that's exactly what it does.
And here I'm going to create a new variable called height and that will take the element called height
and will take its value.
So what is this UI element called height.
Let's go to cute and check this out.
So this one here has the object name height.
So that's the identifier of that object.
If I would change that.
And I would have to change to code as well.
So that's pretty much this.
Here where is OK in your UI.
There is something called height and I want to get the value so somebody presses on the button.
We get the height.
Now we need to do the same with the weight.
So I'm gonna say self-taught.
Why weight that value.
So that will give me the value of the weight.
And now I want to do the calculation.
So let's say I want to calculate the BMI which will be weighed divided by height and now with the high
we have to be careful because it's height Square.
Now if we do that and now we could go ahead and set the text.
So self-taught you are that real salt that said text.
And here we can said to be a mine but now of course the BMI is of type float.
So we need to make a strength from it.
OK.
So that's pretty much already the basic functionality right.
So this function will already do everything that we need to do except for that the button doesn't actually
call this function yet.
So we need to connect that to the bottom to the Click event of the button.
To be precise.
So we need to go ahead and say self-taught UI to calculate.
So there is this cut to the button and I want to add this clicked.
So if somebody clicks on that button I want to connect it to self thought calculate B am I.
So I just want to execute this calculate BMI method.
If somebody clicks on that button.
So that's pretty much what I was saying here.
OK now we can save.
That's when we can already run it.
And as you can see flow to division by zero.
There we are.
We already get this area where it says OK it could be zero and it is zero actually when we started it's
already zero.
So let's go back here we can see we are trying to divide by the height of zero.
Now we could of course say we are going to set the value to something that is not zero from the start.
So press on your element here this double spin box.
And now we go to minimum value.
So the double spin box has a property called minimum.
And in here you could say OK the minimum is going to be point 1.
So somebody has to be at least 1 centimeter tall.
So we can save this now and go back to our build UI and execute it.
Once that is done we go to our main P Y and we execute it again.
And now we have this problem where we have a non type.
So we're trying to access calculate BMI and actually here I'm trying to call the method here.
So that's the problem and it can up can come up very quickly when you just say self-dual calculate BMI
and because it's a method you already feel automatically inclined to call the method but we actually
just passing the method here and we're not calling the method itself.
We're just connecting it.
So now let me run it again and this arrow should disappear.
There we are.
So now if I press calculate BMI I can see my BMI is zero point zero.
Now if I enter 0 here calculate BMI as you can see I cannot set that to zero any more.
OK so that's how you can already fix that problem whereas if somebody actually enter 0 then you can
just change the value.
But if you really want to make sure that it's never zero you can of course add an if statement here.
So if height is not equal zero only then I want to do all of this calculation stuff.
So only then I want to do all of this.
And now of course the B.M. I could be a very weird value here.
So we should round it.
But we're going to do that in a second before we do that.
So let's add some value.
So let's actually test values.
So it's had a height let's say were 2 meters high.
And we have a weight of 100 kilograms.
And actually you see I cannot enter weight higher than 99.
So the minimum is the maximum value of this weight is 99.
So let me calculate it.
And it can see that's the BMI here.
Twenty four point seven five.
And that's because it perfectly fits with those numbers.
And what if somebody is 2 meters and 13 then you suddenly see you get this very ugly value here.
So that's something that we have to fix.
And also the weight in kilograms should be fixed so its maximum value is 99 and we can change it.
So weight in kilogramme Let's change the maximum to let's say something like 999 OK.
So people could add values up to 999 for the weight.
OK let's save that and rerun are built up twice so change to build.
Run it and go back to Main again.
OK.
Now how do we solve this issue with a ugly number.
Well we just say please.
Round two billion.
OK.
And how do we rounded.
Well we just want to round it to two decimal points.
OK so that's what we do here.
Now the next thing that we want to do is to actually display or hide the values.
We don't need or the UI elements that that we don't need to be precise.
So at the beginning when we start our application we don't need to.
To have this value here we don't need this label we don't need to be a calculation or the result here
we don't need those.
So we can basically get rid of them in the constructor.
So you can just say self-taught you dot result and hide it.
So there's this hied method.
I would just say hide and the same with the result labels self third you Piedad and then you might say
OK we don't have a result level we'll just have a label 1 2 and 4 and stuff like that.
OK so what we need to do is we need to find the label.
It's this one here and change its name.
So I'm going to change its name to resoled on those core label or actually I could also use and resoled
label like that.
Well how do you prefer that's how you can take it.
I'm just going to say we sold the label.
OK.
And then let's go back here we can go ahead and say self-taught UI result label that hide.
Now this code will crash and you might guess why.
Because I didn't run my build the way you see has no result label.
So I need to run the ball why.
Once again each time I make a change in acute creator.
I need to run to build why I get.
And now let me check that or write it correctly.
Or did I not save my file here.
Yes.
I didn't save it in here.
So let me save it again.
Run my read my Bill P. Y and then run my main again.
And now suddenly the error disappears.
OK so now we want to display those too.
Once I calculate the BMI because otherwise I don't ever get the right information displayed.
So what I'm going to say is I'm going to cut those two or copy those two and I'm just going to add them
in here and instead of hiding.
I'm just going to show them.
So those two elements should be shown.
Now what shall we this play.
If somebody says or writes a wrong value so somebody just doesn't have a height of at least zero or
higher than zero.
Well then we could go ahead and say self thought why we sold and said text said text to please enter
a weight or a height higher
than zero.
And now though they won't see that of course.
And that is because we don't display the results label at all or the result.
So what we could do is we could say enter a value higher and so on showed a result.
So if we stop and run again.
Now let me enter zero.
Calculate BMI You should see your BMI is 0 0.
That's because it never actually takes the value of 0.
So we will never actually see this else but if we hadn't set the value to zero then that would be fine.
The problem is that we already take the values of 0 0 and there is already something happening once
we start our application.
So let me deactivate the minimum value just to test for testing purposes here is the height.
Let's change its minimum value to zero.
Once again let's say fit and run are built again.
Now run our main and we should see Please enter a height higher than zero.
All right.
Perfect.
So that works already.
And now we can enter anything you want in here.
A way to Haiti calculate BMI and you see your BMI is twenty two point one six.
All right.
So I'd say that's pretty good.
We have our own little BMI calculator with a UI.
It looks damn good and it does everything that we wanted to do.
I hope you could manage to solve this exercise.
Maybe you had slightly different code that's totally fine.
No worries as long as it does what it should do and that's calculating the BMI.
And as long as it doesn't crash the application then you're good to go.
OK.
So I hope you enjoy this exercise and see you in the next video.